Now that we had a first look at what Ionic is
and no worries if that was a lot, we'll learn about these different building blocks
step-by-step throughout the course, we'll learn about the web components and then we'll learn about Capacitor
and how that works together,
no worries
but now that we learned about that,
what is Angular? And I want to be honest here,
you should know that, knowing Angular is a prerequisite to this course.
There is a complete refresher module after this first module,
this is entirely optional and it should really just be a refresher,
it will not teach you Angular from the ground up,
it will only refresh your knowledge in case it's been some time since you last worked with Angular. Knowing
Angular is a prerequisite
and if you don't, check out my complete Angular guide to learn all about Angular which you will also
need in this course. Angular is of course a framework which makes the development of web apps, Javascript
driven web apps easier and more fun and allows us to write more powerful apps because we don't
have to focus on the nitty-gritty details but we can use Angular to take care about all the rendering
of the UI and of creating a nice single page application and we can focus on our business logic and
therefore, tools or frameworks like Angular
help us write highly reactive Javascript-driven web apps.
It's absolutely optional, we could do everything with vanilla Javascript but then we really couldn't
because we would have to reinvent the wheel all over the place,
we would probably introduce bugs and Angular does the same we could do but in a best practice way it
makes the way free for us to work and focus on our own business logic. And we also use Angular to build
so-called single page applications which are apps that run on one and the same HTML page, where this
page or parts of this page are constantly re-rendered
via Javascript, in the end triggered and controlled through Angular but which to the user looks like
sometimes the entire page changes and that simply creates the illusion of having different pages we
can switch between whilst all the transitions and so on our instant because it's Javascript running in
the browser,
we don't need to wait for a server response and that's why we build apps with Javascript and why we
power so much logic in our apps with Javascript.
Now in an Ionic app, we essentially would want to use a framework like Angular because it helps us with
complex problems like state or data management between different pages for example, which can become
quite difficult in bigger apps and it helps us with things like routing or navigation, so switching between
these different pages and passing data around between them and so on
and I will come back to this later in the course.
This is Angular, as I said if it's been some time since you last worked with it,
have a look at this refresher
I have after this module. If Angular isn't your thing, then this might not be 100% the right
course for you but I want to highlight at this point that Ionic also works with just Javascript, no framework
at all or with other frameworks or libraries, so you can use it with React or Vue as well if you want.
You should still, in case you want to go that route and you don't want to refund the course which is
nice of course, you should go through the Quick Start parts, the first sections of this course to
learn how Ionic works and you will then still be able to use that knowledge with these other frameworks,
even though some things will differ there but you will know which things differ by the end of these
first sections because the Ionic components you use and the way you use them will be the same.
And speaking of that, it's time to get our hands dirty and start using some Ionic components.